HARI SREENIVASAN: Good evening.
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
Judy Woodruff is away.
On the "NewsHour" tonight: The
Obama administration
strikes back, issuing new
sanctions against
Russia for meddling in the U.S.
election.
Also ahead, a new Syrian
cease-fire is struck,
this time without U.S. input.
Can the deal hold, bringing the
end of a bloody
six-year civil war?
Plus, the best of 2016, the
movies that got
all the buzz, and the gems that
were overlooked.
MIKE SARGENT, Film Critic,
Pacifica Radio:
You see things you have seen
things many times
before, but it's told so much
better and so
well, that it really -- it sort
of puts you
under a spell.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All that and
more on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
HARI SREENIVASAN: The White
House has stated
that Russian hackers tried to
sway the U.S.
presidential race.
And now it's laid out the
punishment, targeting
key leaders and agencies in
Moscow.
The word came from Hawaii, where
the president
is vacationing.
The Kremlin had been waiting and
watching.
Today, the White House ended the
waiting.
President Obama announced a
range of retaliation
for election meddling that the
U.S. blames
on top levels of the Russian
government.
It includes sanctions on Russian
intelligence
services and on top officials in
the unit
that ordered the hacks, and
expulsions of
35 Russian diplomats within 72
hours.
Both the CIA and the FBI have
concluded that
Russia hacked Democratic groups
and the e-mails
of John Podesta, the chairman of
Hillary Clinton's
campaign.
Mr. Obama called today's
retaliation -- quote
-- "a necessary and appropriate
response,
not just to the hacking, but to
aggressive
harassment of U.S. officials in
Moscow."
He also said the U.S. may take
other actions
at a time and place of its
choosing, some
of which will not be publicized.
President-elect Trump has played
down the
hacking, as he did again last
night.
DONALD TRUMP (R),
President-Elect: I think
we ought to get on with our
lives.
I think that computers have
complicated lives
very greatly.
The whole age of computer has
made it where
nobody knows exactly what is
going on.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Moscow today
dismissed the
U.S. announcement.
A spokesman for President
Vladimir Putin said
he regrets the move and will
consider countermeasures
of his own.
In the meantime, a U.S.
government report
detailing Russian meddling in
American elections
is due out in the coming days.
Several top Republicans in
Congress said the
president's sanctions are
overdue.
They plan to push for tougher
action.
We will hear from the top
homeland security
official at the White House
after the news
summary.
The U.S. had no role in the
day's second major
development, but Russia did.
It was the announcement of a
nationwide cease-fire
in Syria.
The truce officially took effect
at midnight
local time, and most rebel
groups signaled
they'd accept it.
A full report later in the
program.
In the day's other news: Iraqi
security forces
launched the second phase of
their offensive
to retake Mosul from the Islamic
State group.
The new assault focused on
several eastern
neighborhoods in the country's
second largest
city.
Smoke could be seen rising above
the skyline
as elite special forces and army
troops fought
their way deeper into the city.
It's the last major stronghold
for ISIS in
Iraq.
Russia's military says flight
recorders show
no evidence of an explosion on a
transport
plane that crashed in the Black
Sea.
But as workers pulled out more
wreckage today,
a Russian general in Moscow said
investigators
have not ruled out a terrorist
act.
MAN (through translator): Other
than an explosion
on board, there could have been
some mechanical
impact.
A terror attack doesn't always
involve an
explosion.
The flight was quite normal, but
one of the
pilots' sentences and an
analysis of it tell
us about the beginning of a
special situation,
about the beginning of it
developing and nothing
else yet.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The general
offered no detail
on what that special situation
involved.
Earlier in the week, the main
Russian intelligence
agency had dismissed terrorism
as a possible
cause.
The crash killed all 92 people
on board.
In Germany, officials have
released a man
they detained yesterday in last
week's Berlin
truck attack.
Prosecutors had said his phone
number was
found in the phone of the
attack's main suspect,
Anis Amri.
He was killed last week in
Italy.
Today, authorities said the man
wasn't in
contact with Amri after all.
Back in this country, Wall
Street struggled
again.
The Dow Jones industrial average
was down
about 14 points to close below
19820.
The Nasdaq fell six points, and
the S&P 500
lost a fraction.
And the death of actress Debbie
Reynolds left
generations of fans stunned
today.
News of her passing came last
night, just
24 hours after her daughter,
Carrie Fisher,
had died.
Jeffrey Brown looks at Reynolds'
life and
career.
JEFFREY BROWN: Debbie Reynolds
was just 19
in 1952 when she appeared
alongside Gene Kelly
and Donald O'Connor in "Singin'
in the Rain."
She later told the American Film
Institute
she simply didn't know enough to
fear the
challenge.
DEBBIE REYNOLDS, Actress: You
know, I was
so dumb, and I didn't feel you
could fail.
I felt it was me, and I really
just marched
straight ahead and I wasn't
frightened of
the huge task.
I had never danced.
JEFFREY BROWN: Reynolds would
act, sing and
dance her way through the
decades, in films
like "Tammy and the Bachelor,"
"How the West
Was Won," and 1964's "The
Unsinkable Molly
Brown," a rags-to-riches tale
that would earn
Reynolds her only Oscar
nomination.
She may have been just as famous
for her personal
life, most of all her 1955
marriage to the
pop music idol Eddie Fisher, and
their divorce
amid his affair and then
marriage to Elizabeth
Taylor.
But her career continued in
films like "The
Singing Nun."
And in 1973, she introduced
herself to younger
generations as the voice of
Charlotte in a
film version of "Charlotte's
Web."
In the 1990s, Reynolds played
the titular
role in "Mother," opposite
Albert Brooks.
And she appeared on sitcoms,
including "Will
& Grace," and more movies until
just recently.
At the 2015 Screen Actors Guild
Awards, her
daughter presented Reynolds with
the lifetime
achievement award.
DEBBIE REYNOLDS: And my favorite
movie was
"The Unsinkable Molly Brown."
And I had a lot of fun doing
that.
(APPLAUSE)
DEBBIE REYNOLDS: And in that
movie, I got
to sing a wonderful song called,
"I Ain't
Down Yet."
Well, I ain't.
Thank you all very much for this
wonderful
honor.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
JEFFREY BROWN: Yesterday,
Reynolds suffered
a stroke and was rushed to a Los
Angeles hospital,
where she died.
Debbie Reynolds was 84 years
old.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Still to come
on the "NewsHour":
the U.S. retaliates against
Russia for cyber-hacks
leading up to the election; will
a Russian-brokered
cease-fire help end the Syrian
civil war?;
the global economic outlook of a
newly tapped
Trump adviser; and much more.
Now: the administration's
imposition of sanctions
against Russia for trying to
influence the
vote during the presidential
election.
I spoke earlier today with Lisa
Monaco, the
assistant to President Obama for
homeland
security and counterterrorism.
I began our conversation asking
her about
the impact of these new
sanctions.
LISA MONACO, Chief White House
Counterterrorism
Adviser: So, the impact is to
make clear that
we are imposing consequences for
Russian aggression
and their interference, their
attempts to
interfere in our political
process.
Specifically, the impact is for
the individuals
who have been sanctioned.
It imposes a travel ban and
inhibits anybody
from doing and bars anybody from
conducting
financial transactions with
them.
Importantly, also, what we often
see is the
international financial system
and European
banks and others from -- who
will take steps
to follow our lead when we take
these types
of actions, so it can have a
ripple effect
and impose some real
consequences.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Now,
considering that these
are the actions that you have
decided to publicize,
are these enough of a
proportionate response
to Russian meddling in the U.S.
election?
LISA MONACO: Well, look, I think
we should
always be asking the question,
are we hitting
the right balance?
And we have decided to take
these actions
quite deliberately, and we have
done so with
precision, consistent with
what's going to
be in our national interest and
consistent
with what's going to protect our
national
security.
What I think you really should
be very clear
about is the actions taken today
are done
in response to a range of
Russian aggressive
behavior, both harassment and
mistreatment
of our personnel in Moscow, and,
of course,
the accomplishes
cyber-activities against
our -- and efforts to interfere
in our election
process.
But these actions today follow
very clear
steps that we took earlier this
year, the
unprecedented disclosure and
attribution to
the highest levels of the
Russian government.
That was done in the statement
from the DNI
and from the secretary of
homeland security
back in October, making quite
clear that we
attribute the efforts to
interfere in our
election to the Russian
government.
And these actions today also
follow repeated
both public and private warnings
to the Russian
government, including at the
level of the
president.
And these actions also follow
extensive outreach
to state and local governments
to shore up
their cyber-defenses ahead of
the election,
because, of course, we were
focused very keenly
on maintaining the integrity of
our election
process.
And these are actions also
follow our extensive
briefing of Congress.
HARI SREENIVASAN: How much is
based on concern
that the incoming administration
might not
take this step?
LISA MONACO: So, these actions
are taken deliberately,
as I said, and with precision,
and because
we feel it is very important to
make clear
both to Russia and to any other
actors that
there will be consequences for
violating norms
of international behavior, both
with respect
to mistreatment of our
diplomatic personnel
and with respect to malicious
cyber-activity.
HARI SREENIVASAN: You mentioned
in this long
report that there were
government organizations,
critical infrastructure
entities, think tanks,
universities, political
organizations and
corporations that were all
hacked.
So besides the DNC, who else was
hacked?
Was the RNC or were the
Republicans hacked
as well?
LISA MONACO: So, I will leave
that to the
intelligence and law enforcement
experts to
detail in their reporting and in
their investigation,.
But what you're referencing
there is the statement
that we have made already, both
from the intelligence
community and elsewhere, that
Russia has become
an increasingly aggressive
actor, and has
engaged in a years-long campaign
in influence
operations and malicious
cyber-activity across
a range of public and private
sector institutions.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Now, since you
have laid
out that you know who is doing
this, you know
how they're doing this, can you
say with any
certainty that either the hacks
have stopped
and that we have defended
against them?
LISA MONACO: Well, what we did
over the summer
was to be very clear about what
the threat
is, and we did that by briefing
both Congress
and state and local officials,
who, of course,
own and operate and manage the
electoral infrastructure
in this country.
And we enabled them to take
steps to defend
themselves and provided them
assistance in
shoring up their defenses.
So, we also were very clear,
during the election
season and on Election Day, that
we were monitoring
and making sure that there had
not been an
increase in that malicious
activity, and we
didn't see an increase.
And, indeed, we are confident in
the outcome
that there wasn't a malicious
cyber-meddling,
such that it affected the vote
count or the
voting operations.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, have all
of these think
tanks and universities and
important infrastructure
entities, have they all been
alerted of the
types of attacks and what they
need to do?
And are we safer now that this
information
is out there?
LISA MONACO: I think one of the
steps we are
taking today in the responses
that we are
issuing is, very importantly, to
expose Russian
activity.
And so one of the elements of
the announcement
that we made today is a report
by the Department
of Homeland Security and the FBI
that provides
technical information that will
allow network
defenders -- that's the owners
and the operators
of systems both in the public
and private
sector -- to use that
information to defend
themselves.
So we're exposing the Russian
tactics, techniques
and procedures that they use to
infiltrate
our systems, allowing network
defenders to
defend themselves, and,
importantly, making
it harder and more complicated
for these malicious,
bad actors to undertake these
activities.
We're basically forcing them to
reengineer
their approaches.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Lisa Monaco from
the White House, thanks so much.
LISA MONACO: Thank you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: This evening,
in a statement,
president-elect Trump said:
"It's time for
our country to move on to bigger
and better
things."
But he said that, in the
interests of the
nation, he will meet with
intelligence chiefs
next week on the Russian
hacking.
The Russians and Turks announced
a cease-fire
deal among some of the warring
parties in
Syria.
It went into effect at midnight
in Damascus.
Margaret Warner has the story.
MARGARET WARNER: Confirmation
came from the
Kremlin and Russian President
Vladimir Putin:
VLADIMIR PUTIN, Russian
President (through
translator): The agreements
reached are, of
course, fragile and need special
attention.
But this is a notable result of
our joint
work and efforts by our partners
in the region.
MARGARET WARNER: One of those
partners, Turkish
President Recep Tayyip Erdogan,
called it
an historic chance.
RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN, Turkish
President (through
translator): We have an
opportunity to stop
the bloodshed in Syria with a
political solution.
We must not squander this
chance.
MARGARET WARNER: Russia has been
a critical
backer of Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad,
while Turkey had pressed for his
ouster.
But they joined to work out this
cease-fire
and plans for future peace talks
in Kazakstan.
The Russians say rebel groups
numbering more
than 60,000 fighters are taking
part.
They include the Western-backed
Free Syrian
Army.
OSAMA ABU ZAID, Free Syrian Army
(through
translator): During the talks,
the Russian
government guaranteed to us that
they will
keep the Syrian regime forces
and their allies
under control.
MARGARET WARNER: Other groups
are excluded,
the Islamic State, which
controls a swathe
of Syria, the al-Qaida offshoot
Jabhat Al-Fateh
Al-Sham in the northwest, and
the Kurdish
militia YPG battling Islamic
State's forces
in cooperation with the U.S.
Iran is also a major ally of the
Assad government,
and is expected to be involved
in peace talks.
Absent entirely from the
negotiations, the
United States.
Three years of talks between
Secretary of
State John Kerry and his Russian
counterpart,
Sergei Lavrov, produced a number
of cease-fires,
but they didn't hold.
Instead, 15 months ago, Russia
launched a
fierce bombing campaign to
bolster the Syrian
regime.
Earlier this month, the rebel
stronghold in
Eastern Aleppo finally fell.
Nonetheless, the State
Department voiced support
for the truce today, saying:
":Any effort
that stops the violence, saves
lives, and
creates the conditions for
political negotiations
would be welcome."
Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov
said today
the incoming Trump
administration would be
welcome to join the peace talks
in Kazakstan.
HARI SREENIVASAN: William
Brangham takes it
from here.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: So, will this
cease-fire
last, where so many others in
the past have
failed?
For that, I'm joined now via
Skype from Tucson
by Andrew Tabler, who's a fellow
at the Washington
Institute for Near East Policy,
and Joshua
Landis, who directs the Center
for Middle
East Studies at the University
of Oklahoma.
Welcome to you both.
Joshua Landis, I would like to
start with
you first.
We have seen cease-fires come
and we have
seen cease-fires go.
Are you at all confident that
this one is
going to last?
JOSHUA LANDIS, University of
Oklahoma: No,
I'm not confident.
This is really not about the
cease-fire holding.
It's about Turkey being involved
with Russia
and Iran and essentially letting
the rebels
know that a new page has been
turned, that
Turkey cannot keep its -- cannot
keep its
door open to the rebels, that
it's closing
the door, and that they're going
to have to
fend for themselves in
negotiations with the
Assad regime.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Andrew Tabler,
take that
up.
Is it your sense that this is
going to hold?
Is this, as some have posited,
that this might
be the beginning of the end of
the war in
Syria?
ANDREW TABLER, Fellow,
Washington Institute
for Near East Policy: I'm also
skeptical.
I think it's impossible to tell.
I think it's very interesting
that, after
the capture of Aleppo, suddenly,
we're in
this situation.
I agree it's important that
Turkey is involved
and on this kind of level with
the Russians
and with the U.S. out of the
room.
That's essentially new
territory.
But what's also interesting is
by pausing
now and going into diplomacy, I
think it shows
that the Russians are setting
the table for
president-elect Trump to become
involved in
some sort of diplomatic process.
And the diplomatic process is
with Assad remaining,
but large parts of the country
being outside
of his control and potentially,
depending
on how the talks go, in the
hands of the rebels.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: There is
obviously a lot
to unpack in there.
Joshua Landis, help us
understand, for people
who haven't been following this
all along,
let's just talk about, what's
Turkey's role,
its very complicated role in
this fight, what
has their role been so far?
JOSHUA LANDIS: Well, Turkey has
been the crossroads.
The territory has a 500-mile
border with Syria.
And across that border has
traveled almost
all the arms, the money, the
help, the fighters
that are going into Syria to
sustain this
revolt against Assad.
The Russians, the Syrians, the
Iranians have
been pressuring Turkey to shut
the door on
that cross-border traffic.
Turkey is beginning to turn away
from support
for the rebels.
And that is partially because of
Trump's election,
in which he said he would work
with the Russians,
and he turned his nose up at the
rebels, saying,
we don't know who they are, and
suggesting
they're worse than Assad.
And so this is an about-face.
The fact that the United States
is not at
the table is very important,
because it has
allowed these talks to go
forward without
the U.S.
And, in a sense, the U.S. has
signaled to
the rebels it's not got their
back, it's not
going to continue to shuttle and
help arms
get through to the rebels.
So this is a new day for the
rebels, who have
to think hard about what their
future strategy
is.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Andrew Tabler,
let's just
continue with that.
A certain number of rebel groups
are part
of the cease-fire agreement.
Some of them, many others are
not.
What happens to those who are
not at the peace
talks now?
ANDREW TABLER: Those that are
left out of
the agreement would be subject
to Russian
aviation strikes, as well as
regime airstrikes
and also other kinds of
operations.
So, those that sign on to it
essentially go
into the cease-fire, and Turkey
guarantees
the rebel factions will not
attack from their
side, and the Russians say that
they will,
as part of the agreement, get
the regime to
stop their attacks.
Of course, these things are
harder to implement.
It's a potential way to tamp
down the violence,
at least in part of the country,
but it will
also allow Russia, the regime
and also the
United States to more fully
target groups
like ISIS and Jabhat Al-Fateh
Al-Sham, the
al-Qaida affiliate.
So, in that way, it could focus
fire on extremist
groups.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: So, Joshua,
back to you.
What happens now with -- it
looks like Assad
is not going to be dislodged
from power.
He is going to have control of
some substantial
majority of his country going
forward, barring
some unforeseen development.
What kind of a country does he
inherit?
What is his -- what's happening
with him going
forward?
JOSHUA LANDIS: Well, I think
he's determined
to conquer all of the country.
And the United States is busy
destroying ISIS,
which owns, perhaps, 30 percent,
35 percent
of the Syrian territory.
And that will largely -- that
will most likely
be inherited by Assad, who is
standing by,
waiting for the continued
collapse of ISIS.
He will continue to go after the
al-Qaida-dominated
areas with Russian help and hope
to scoop
those up as well.
Turkey has made a statement with
Iran and
Russia just the other day that
everyone is
to respect Syria's sovereignty.
Now, that is codeword for not
dividing up
Syria.
And that means that Assad will
take back his
country, I believe.
There are people who believe
this means the
dividing up of Syria, that there
will be a
rebel territory, a Turkish
territory, an Assad
territory.
I don't believe that's the case.
I think Russia is squarely on
the side of
Assad and is muscling Turkey to
fall into
line.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Andrew, what
do you make
of that?
Are we looking at a divided
Turkey or not
-- a divided Syria?
Excuse me.
ANDREW TABLER: Well, I think, in
that sense,
Assad might be able to come back
over his
territory, but the timeline on
that, I think,
is near, due to manpower issues.
So, what we could have is the
Russians saying,
OK, Assad stays on, because
there is not an
alternative.
Meanwhile, I think they are
going to look
for opportunities with the
Turks.
In the northern part of Syria,
the Turks have
carved out a de facto safe zone,
they call
it.
That could be the base for
support, rebel
support from Turkey.
We will have to see if
president-elect Donald
Trump wants to jump on that.
Last week, president-elect Trump
said that
he was going to build beautiful
stations inside
of Syria paid for by Gulf
countries.
It's a big statement, but if
you're going
to build them anywhere, it could
be there.
And that could be the basis for
some kind
of operation, ground operation
against ISIS
in the Eastern part of Syria.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Joshua, what
do you make
about that?
The Trump administration is on
its way into
power.
What do you think he will do
once he's handed
stories morass?
JOSHUA LANDIS: Well, he said he
will be on
the side of -- he will talk with
Putin and
he wants to destroy ISIS.
Those are both things that help
Assad.
I don't believe that he is going
to want to
get into guaranteeing hunks of
Syria under
American control or Turkish
control.
I think that Syria is trying to
rebuild its
country after the economy has
gone into a
tailspin, a failed coup, tons of
terrorist
attacks, an incipient war with
the Kurds.
Turkey is trying to get back to
normal.
And that means finding a way out
of the Syrian
quagmire.
It wants one thing guaranteed,
and that is
that the Kurds do not hive off
and create
their own state.
Russia and Bashar al-Assad can
offer him those
guarantees.
And they will ask him to
withdraw from Syria
in order to give him those
guarantees.
And I think that is the basis
for future talks
between Turkey, Russia and
Assad.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All right,
Joshua Landis,
Andrew Tabler, thank you both
very much.
JOSHUA LANDIS: Pleasure.
ANDREW TABLER: Pleasure.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour":
California's
attempt to manage the pros and
cons of growing
marijuana; the best movies and
actors of 2016;
and letters to our own Gwen
Ifill from female
journalists of color.
But first: a profile of the
president-elect's
top adviser on trade.
It's been very clear during the
campaign,
and in the transition since the
election,
that economist Peter Navarro
seems to have
the ear of Mr. Trump.
Navarro is a tough critic of the
U.S.' trade
relationship with China.
Our economics correspondent,
Paul Solman,
sat down with him this summer.
Here's a reprise of that story,
part of our
weekly series on Making Sense.
DONALD TRUMP (R),
President-Elect: China.
China.
China all the time.
PAUL SOLMAN: Given Donald
Trump's persistently
pointed pivot to Asia, small
wonder that among
his favorite films is "Death by
China."
NARRATOR: China has stolen
thousands of our
factories and millions off our
jobs.
Multinational corporation
profits are soaring,
and we now owe over $3 trillion
to the world's
largest communist nation.
PAUL SOLMAN: And small wonder
the film's writer/director,
Peter Navarro, sounds like
Donald Trump.
PETER NAVARRO, Writer/Director,
"Death by
China": We're going right down
the toilet,
and it's a made-in-China toilet.
PAUL SOLMAN: Navarro, a
Harvard-trained professor
at University of California,
Irvine, is the
sole Trump economic adviser with
a Ph.D.
So how'd you get interested in
and worried
about China?
PETER NAVARRO: I teach MBAs.
And I noticed, starting a few
years after
China joined the World Trade
Organization,
that a lot of my students were
no longer employed.
They were still coming to get
their MBA, but
they'd lost their jobs.
And I started to ask questions
why.
And, at that point, all roads
were leading
to Beijing.
PAUL SOLMAN: Navarro has done
plenty of technical
work in economics, is a pioneer
in online
learning.
But he began focusing on China
just a few
years ago.
PETER NAVARRO: The defining
moment in American
economic history is when Bill
Clinton lobbied
to get China into the World
Trade Organization.
It was the worst political and
economic mistake
in American history in the last
100 years.
PAUL SOLMAN: In the last 100
years?
PETER NAVARRO: In the last 100
years, yes.
China went into the World Trade
Organization
and agreed to play by certain
rules.
Instead, they are illegally
subsidizing their
exports, manipulating their
currency, stealing
all of our intellectual
property, using sweatshops,
using pollution havens.
What happens is, our businesses
and workers
are playing that game with two
hands tied
behind their back.
PAUL SOLMAN: Navarro says you
can even see
the effects at U.C.
Irvine, where, he says, Chinese
students,
paying triple the in-state
tuition rate, are
displacing native Californians,
while the
Chinese parents are scooping up
local real
estate.
PETER NAVARRO: Generally all
cash deals.
PAUL SOLMAN: So your argument
is, unfair trade
practices, they amass dollars,
they bring
the dollars back here, they buy
up property,
and they drive up real estate
prices?
PETER NAVARRO: That's right.
And they drive up rents for
younger people.
They will drive up home prices
for first-time
homebuyers.
So it's not just that we're
losing jobs and
factories.
We're giving away our homes, our
businesses,
our companies, our technologies.
PAUL SOLMAN: But, of course, we
heard the
same alarm about Japan in the
1980s, a false
alarm.
But China is different, says
Navarro, so much
bigger.
DONALD TRUMP: We are going to
enforce all
trade violations against any
country that
cheats.
PAUL SOLMAN: So one of the
answers Donald
Trump provides is that we should
have protective
tariffs on Chinese goods.
PETER NAVARRO: Wrong word.
Wrong word.
PAUL SOLMAN: What's wrong?
PETER NAVARRO: Donald Trump is
not a protectionist.
All he wants to do is defend
America against
unfair trade practices.
PAUL SOLMAN: Well, defend,
protect.
PETER NAVARRO: Very different.
Trade is good.
Tariffs and the threat of
tariffs are a negotiating
tool to require countries like
China to stop
their unfair trade practices.
That's the mission.
PAUL SOLMAN: And how much do you
imagine it
might cost in the increase in
the price of
goods at, say, Wal-Mart?
PETER NAVARRO: Any increase
would be less
than the paycheck that all these
people would
be getting, both in terms of
actually having
a job, plus wages rising again.
PAUL SOLMAN: If the jobs
actually were to
come back, that is.
PETER NAVARRO: The Trump trade
doctrine is
this.
America will trade with any
country, so long
as that deal meets these three
criterion:
You increase the GDP growth
rate, you decrease
the trade deficit, and you
strengthen the
manufacturing base.
PAUL SOLMAN: But isn't
technology responsible
for the elimination of American
factory jobs?
PETER NAVARRO: Certainly
technology has played
a part, but the dramatic change
from five-and-a-half
decades of 3.5 percent rate of
growth prior
to China entering our markets
with illegally
subsidized goods and the 1.8
percent afterwards
suggests strongly that China has
played an
enormous role in the decline and
downfall
of the American economy.
And I can show on a blackboard
exactly why.
PAUL SOLMAN: Now, your typical
economist would
hardly agree.
But, hey, says Navarro, your
typical economist
still believes in the old
so-called Keynesian
approach to reviving the
economy.
PETER NAVARRO: Alright, Paul,
the growth of
any nation is simply four
things.
PAUL SOLMAN: More consumption,
C., by consumers
and more G, government spending.
He and Trump, however, will
supposedly flip
the script, stimulating more I,
Investment,
by business, via tax cuts for
the wealthy
and corporations, while boosting
net exports
through new trade deals.
That's exports minus imports.
PETER NAVARRO: That's right.
PAUL SOLMAN: And, of course, if
that's a negative
number, that is, you have more
imports than
exports.
PETER NAVARRO: This is the big
kahuna.
This is what Donald Trump
understands.
This is the trade deficit.
We run a trade deficit of close
to $800 billion
a year.
And so this directly subtracts
from this.
This is why we're stuck in
low-growth mode.
PAUL SOLMAN: Well, maybe.
The job of a journalist,
however, is to ask
questions.
What is U.S. GDP 2016?
COMPUTER VOICE: Checking on
that.
PAUL SOLMAN: Happily, there's
now Siri to
answer them.
COMPUTER VOICE: It looks like
the answer is
about 18.2 trillion U.S. dollars
per year.
PAUL SOLMAN: Thank you, Siri.
In that case, GDP is something
like $18 trillion,
right?
And you're saying that the trade
deficit is
-- well, it's less than $1
trillion, right?
So, this can't be a major factor
in total
GDP, the size of the economy.
PETER NAVARRO: Yes, but when we
run these
big trade deficits and send our
jobs offshore,
we hold our wages down and our
income down.
That feeds right back into the
biggest part
of this whole equation,
consumption.
This drags GDP down as well.
PAUL SOLMAN: Or so this story
goes.
When you hear the criticism
about Donald Trump's
own goods being made in other
countries, what's
your reaction?
PETER NAVARRO: Do me a favor.
Play Dan Slane's clip in my
"Death by China"
movie.
It's priceless.
PAUL SOLMAN: Slane was a plywood
manufacturer
in Bowling Green, Kentucky,
whose competitors
moved to China.
DAN SLANE, Business Owner: And I
opened up
three factories in China and
delivered to
the customer in the United
States 50 percent
cheaper than I could make it in
Bowling Green.
PETER NAVARRO: He winds up
selling product
back here into the U.S. at cost.
How did he make his money?
DAN SLANE: Every month, the
Chinese government
would send me a check for 17
percent of my
exports, and that was my net
margin and my
profit.
PAUL SOLMAN: So, is Donald Trump
getting checks
from the Chinese government?
PETER NAVARRO: That's how the
game works.
PAUL SOLMAN: But he could use
American companies.
There are lots of people who
actually say
made in USA and use that as a
marketing tool.
PETER NAVARRO: The point here
is, he can't.
The competitive forces that
force a Dan Slane
to take his furniture company to
China, they're
real, OK?
And if you try and take the high
ground and
produce here in America, when
China's dumping
product in and manipulating
their currency,
you go out of business.
You just go out of business.
PAUL SOLMAN: What about the
character issues
that surround Donald Trump?
PETER NAVARRO: Well, look, I
don't go there.
I focus on policy.
That's my job.
PAUL SOLMAN: And you have no
problem with
the failed companies?
PETER NAVARRO: No one should be
surprised
just because somebody isn't
successful 100
percent of the time.
The percent here, he's a
billionaire.
He's successful.
PAUL SOLMAN: And no matter how
much money
he actually has or hasn't got,
given that
Donald Trump is the
president-elect of the
United States, no can argue that
he isn't
successful.
This is "NewsHour" economics
correspondent
Paul Solman, reporting from
Irvine, California.
HARI SREENIVASAN: In November,
four more states
voted to legalize recreational
marijuana,
bringing the total number to
seven.
With more states loosening
restrictions, cities
and counties are seeking ways to
regulate
cannabis farming, including a
county in California
piloting a project to keep pot
off the black
market.
SHERAZ SADIQ: Nearly 300 miles
north of San
Francisco, thick redwoods reach
to the sky.
In this land of giants, the buzz
of sawmills
and the splash of fishing nets
once signaled
a booming economy.
Today, there's another industry
in Humboldt
County that is thriving and
driving up demand
for goods and services.
MAN: And your total will be
$3,023.99 after
tax.
SHERAZ SADIQ: From leaf trimming
machines
to water storage services and
specialty soils,
marijuana, or cannabis, as it's
also known,
is big business in Humboldt
County.
PATRICK MURPHY, Emerald Family
Farms: Humboldt
County is the Napa of cannabis.
It is by far and away the
largest production
zone of high-quality cannabis in
the world.
SHERAZ SADIQ: And for the first
time in nearly
50 years, it's coming out of the
shadows through
a bold new experiment that
allows people to
legally grow medical cannabis
for profit.
PATRICK MURPHY: I believe that,
instead of
complaining about the smell of
cannabis, the
people of Humboldt County will
realize that
that's the smell of cultivating
local prosperity.
SHERAZ SADIQ: Patrick Murphy is
the co-owner
of Emerald Family Farms, a
collective of cannabis
farmers.
PATRICK MURPHY: We would like to
create an
industry that is both
environmentally and
economically sustainable.
The first time I cultivated
cannabis was when
I was 16 years old.
And I have been cultivating
cannabis ever
since.
SHERAZ SADIQ: Farmers like
Murphy are now
required to register with the
county so they
can get permits to legally grow
medical cannabis,
just as they would for other
agricultural
crops.
Size limits apply, depending on
how the crop
is grown, and whether it's new
or existing
cultivation.
STEVE LAZAR, Planning and
Building Department,
Humboldt County: The limit for
new cultivation
is 10,000 square feet, or about
a quarter
of an acre.
Existing operations, we have
allowed all the
way up to one acre in size, if
they can meet
requirements.
SHERAZ SADIQ: Steve Lazar is a
senior planner
at the Planning and Building
Department in
Eureka.
He helped write the county's new
rules as
a green rush has been taking off
in the forested
hills of Humboldt.
STEVE LAZAR: So, here, we're
looking at a
photograph from 2006.
The photograph shows a forested
area.
But, by 2015, this area is now
host to 20
to 30 different cultivation
operations.
So, here we can see every of
greenhouse construction,
water storage.
One could easily estimate that
there's over
10,000 cultivation sites in the
county at
this point.
SHERAZ SADIQ: People from all
over the world
are rushing to Humboldt to
cultivate cannabis.
But the lure of pot profits is
straining local
watersheds and threatening
endangered salmon.
SCOTT BAUER, California
Department of Fish
and Wildlife: Marijuana
cultivation is probably
the biggest issue facing the
recovery of our
salmon and steelhead.
We put a million dollars into a
watershed
to restore fish there.
And I go out on a site and I see
a million
dollars in habitat damage.
SHERAZ SADIQ: Scott Bauer is a
scientist with
the California Department of
Fish and Wildlife.
SCOTT BAUER: Typically, on an
enforcement
activity, we see illegal
road-grading, bulldozers
pushing dirt into streams.
We see people diverting water,
and, in fact,
taking most of the water out of
the stream
to cultivate marijuana.
SHERAZ SADIQ: Bauer and his team
not only
fine growers for breaking
environmental laws.
They also give permits to
legally take water
from rivers and streams.
SCOTT BAUER: We would like every
marijuana
cultivator to get a permit from
the department
to divert water.
We condition our permit to say,
you can't
have any water in the
summertime.
You need to take water in the
wintertime,
and store it for use later.
SHERAZ SADIQ: Cannabis has been
legal to use
in California for medical
purposes since 1996.
WOMAN: It's got a great look,
got a great
smell.
SHERAZ SADIQ: Patients could
also grow cannabis
and supply it to dispensaries as
long as they
didn't profit from it.
But all that will change in
2018.
That's when California will
begin issuing
licenses for commercial medical
cannabis activities.
Until then, counties and cities
are trying
to regulate the cannabis
industry at the local
level.
STEVE LAZAR: Now we can call a
spade a spade.
Profit is part of being a
farmer, whether
you're growing cannabis or
tomatoes.
SHERAZ SADIQ: Maybe so, but it's
still illegal
at the federal level to grow or
sell cannabis.
PATRICK MURPHY: Every cannabis
cultivator
lives with the fear of having
their children
taken away from them, having
financial ruin.
SHERAZ SADIQ: But in late
August, 2,300 people,
most of them existing growers,
came forward
to register under Humboldt's new
program.
But, according to the local
sheriff, only
a fraction of the county's pot
ends up legally
in the hands of patients.
MICHAEL DOWNEY, Humboldt County
Sheriff: I
would say 95 percent of the
marijuana growing
in Humboldt County, and possibly
higher, is
actually going to the black
market.
SHERAZ SADIQ: The sheriff's
office conducts
roughly 100 raids a year,
targeting massive
illegal marijuana grows.
MAN: What we have here is
typically evidence
that has been found in a
marijuana grow that's
been seized by the Humboldt
County Sheriff's
Office.
These right here are processed
marijuana in
one-pound bags.
And we have the typical firearms
that are
seized in a marijuana grow,
AK-47 assault
weapons, M-14 rifles.
This is what they use to protect
their marijuana.
SHERAZ SADIQ: The county is now
trying to
keep cannabis out of the black
market with
a new track-and-trace program
that gives each
farmer a set of stamps bearing
codes that
are unique to them.
In this demo, a bag of processed
cannabis
is sealed with a stamp and
verified online
as it moves through the supply
chain.
MAN: OK, now we can also check
the proof of
origin with the mobile
application.
SHERAZ SADIQ: For the first
time, a patient
at a California dispensary will
be able to
quickly check that a product was
grown in
Humboldt and be able to see its
lab results.
From farmers to dispensary
owners, 15 people
are taking part in this pilot
program.
But now that California has
voted yes on the
recreational use of pot,
legalization could
spell tough times ahead for
farmers here in
Humboldt County.
MAN: I believe that it will be
grown all over
the West Coast.
And I believe the price per
pound is going
to become so low that the
industry is going
to be driven out of Humboldt
County
PATRICK MURPHY: The fear is that
the people
that were a part of this, that
started this
movement will not have a place
in the future.
And it will only happen if we do
not take
part, if we do not stand up and
make our voices
heard as the heart and soul of
the cannabis
industry.
SHERAZ SADIQ: For the "PBS
NewsHour," I'm
Sheraz Sadiq in Humboldt County,
California.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Now we
continue our series
on the best of the year in arts
-- tonight,
what stood out in the world of
movies.
Jeffrey Brown is back with our
conversation.
JEFFREY BROWN: And for that, we
are joined
again by two of our steadfast
and stalwart
film critics, Ann Hornaday of
The Washington
Post and Mike Sargent of
Pacifica Radio.
Welcome back to both of you.
ANN HORNADAY, Film Critic, The
Washington
Post: Thank you.
MIKE SARGENT, Film Critic,
Pacifica Radio:
Thank you.
JEFFREY BROWN: So, let's start
with a quick
roundup, a top five.
Then we will go into a little
bit more detail.
Ann.
ANN HORNADAY: OK, top five.
Number one, "Moonlight," Barry
Jenkins' coming
of age story, "Manchester by the
Sea," wonderful
domestic drama by Kenneth
Lonergan, "Hell
or High Water," a terrific
contemporary Western,
a little father-son serial comic
drama called
"The Confirmation" Clive Owen,
and then finally
"O.J.: Made in America," the
amazing O.J.
Simpson documentary.
JEFFREY BROWN: Which also made
our television
list, but that had a film
release.
ANN HORNADAY: Indeed.
JEFFREY BROWN: OK, Mike Sargent,
your top
five.
MIKE SARGENT: Well, my top five.
The top one is a film called
"Arrival," which
is a science fiction about
aliens landing
and us trying to communicate.
Then there's Mel Gibson's
"Hacksaw Ridge,"
which is about Desmond Doss, who
won the Medal
of Honor without ever having to
fire one bullet.
Then I have "Purge: Election
Year," which
is the third film in the series.
But the Purge is something that
happens once
a year in this future dystopian
America where
once a year you get to purge,
and violence
is legal for 24 hours.
And this film actually does what
the premise
should have done in the first
two films, and
I really like it.
Then I have "Moonlight," which I
love just
probably as much as Ann did.
And then a film that I almost
forgot called
"Eye in the Sky" with Helen
Mirren, which
is the final performance of Alan
Rickman,
but it's a film not to be
missed.
JEFFREY BROWN: Let's watch a
little clip from
"Moonlight."
Then we will talk a little bit
more about
it.
ACTRESS: What's wrong?
ACTOR: Nothing.
I'm good.
ACTRESS: No.
I have seen good.
And you ain't it.
Stop putting your head down in
my house.
You know my rule.
It's all love and all pride in
this house.
You feel me?
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, so,
Ann, an unusual
film in many ways, episodic,
takes one man
through three different actors.
ANN HORNADAY: Yes.
Indeed, exactly.
It's a young boy's story, as you
said, told
in three distinct chapters,
first when he
is a young boy, then as a
teenager and then
as a young man.
And it's about a person coming
of age in poverty,
in this case in Liberty City,
Miami.
That scene that we just saw
features Janelle
Monae in an absolute breakout
performance.
And she's also in another movie
that is out
right now called "Hidden
Figures."
JEFFREY BROWN: Known, first of
all, as a singer,
a musician, and now suddenly a
great actress.
ANN HORNADAY: Exactly.
She's just a great actress.
And it's just -- it's a very
tender, observant
-- as Mike said, it takes all
the kind of
tropes of a coming of age story
and turns
them inside out and makes them
so intimate.
And Jenkins' kind of -- his
point of view
is just a little askance, it's a
little askew,
so that you're not getting the
conventional
beats of a person's life.
You're getting the in-between
times, which
are sometimes even more
meaningful.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, Mike,
you singled
out "Arrival."
So, let's take a look at a scene
from that.
AMY ADAMS, Actress: I need to
see me.
ACTOR: She's walking toward the
screen.
AMY ADAMS: Now, that's a proper
introduction.
JEFFREY BROWN: So, what do you
love about
"Arrival," Mike?
MIKE SARGENT: I love pretty much
about pretty
much everything about this film.
It's a film that does what
science fiction
and good science fiction should
be, where
it says a lot about the human
condition.
This is a film that deals with
the issues
of communication, how and why we
communicate,
what the nature of that is, what
the issues
are between nations, how we
don't get along
and are on the verge of war
throughout the
story.
And it deals with time and just
how we -- what
our relationship is to time.
The movie is in many ways like a
large "Twilight
Zone" episode.
But it's beautifully shot.
It's beautifully acted.
The aliens are very powerful and
meaningful.
And I don't want to give too
much away, but
the way in which the aliens
communicate is
such in an imaginative -- and
it's just a
beautiful film that to me works
on every level.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, so we
asked both
of you also to pick an acting
performance
that stood out for you this
year.
And, Ann, you chose Casey
Affleck in "Manchester
by the Sea."
Let's take a quick look.
CASEY AFFLECK, Actor: I don't
understand.
ACTOR: Which part are you having
trouble with?
CASEY AFFLECK: Well, I can't be
the guardian.
ACTOR: Well...
CASEY AFFLECK: I mean, I can't.
ACTOR: Well, naturally, I
assumed Joe had
discussed all of this with you.
CASEY AFFLECK: No, he didn't.
No.
JEFFREY BROWN: What about it?
What stood out there?
ANN HORNADAY: It's a very
interior performance.
The thing about Lonergan's
movies is that
they're really about subtext.
And when a movie is really about
subtext,
the actor has to bring it.
The actor has to provide for the
audience
all the things, the subterranean
emotions
and feelings that are going on
underneath
the dialogue, as we just saw in
that scene.
And Affleck does it just
brilliantly.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, Mike,
and you picked
Viola Davis in "Fences," which
is the Denzel
Washington-directed film of the
August Wilson
play.
Let's look at a clip from that.
DENZEL WASHINGTON, Actor: It's
not easy for
me to admit that I have been
standing in the
same place for 18 years.
VIOLA DAVIS, Actress: Well, I
have been standing
with you.
I have been right here with you,
Troy.
I got a life, too.
I got 18 years of my life just
standing in
the same spot as you.
Don't you think I ever wanted
other things?
Don't you think I had dreams and
hopes?
What about my life?
What about me?
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, Mike,
Viola Davis.
MIKE SARGENT: Well, Viola Davis,
I have to
say, is just one of those
actresses who is
transformative.
She becomes the character who
she is in this.
This is based on the play by
August Wilson,
and it's first in a series, a
series of plays
that he's done about black life
in America
during a specific period.
And Viola Davis is, though she's
probably
going to be nominated as best
supporting actress
for this, she really, whenever
she's on screen,
she just takes it.
She's won an Emmy.
She's won a Tony.
And I think she may be one of
those few actors
who is going win all three and
win an Oscar.
She is just -- she is not just
someone who
just you watch you act.
She moves you.
And she really does in this
film.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, how
just quickly,
before we go, give us something
that maybe
we just missed altogether that
you want to
recommend to us.
MIKE SARGENT: Well, I would
recommend a film
called "Tanna."
That'S T-A-N-N-A.
"Tanna" is essentially a Romeo
and Juliet
story, but it's told by an
indigenous people,
indigenous actors.
It's actually Australia's entry
for the Oscars
and it made the short list for
best foreign
film this year.
It's a beautifully shot film.
It's in another language, but so
much of it
is about the dialogue and what
goes on.
They're star-crossed lovers in a
tribe where
you can't get together.
And I have to say it's just --
it's an amazing
film.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, Ann
Hornaday.
ANN HORNADAY: This is a tough
one because
there were a lot this year.
But one that I really loved
watching was called
"A Bigger Splash."
It's from the Italian director
Luca Guadagnino.
I think that's how you pronounce
his name.
(LAUGHTER)
ANN HORNADAY: It stars Tilda
Swinton as a
rock star who is rusticating in
Italy with
her boyfriend/husband, I think,
who is a filmmaker.
She has laryngitis.
JEFFREY BROWN: Sound horrible,
right, a horrible
life, right?
(CROSSTALK)
ANN HORNADAY: No, it is just so
luxurious.
And the scenery is beautiful.
JEFFREY BROWN: That's what I
meant.
The clothes are beautiful, and
she's beautiful.
And then Ralph Fiennes shows up
as the mischief-maker
of the bunch.
And he delivers, I think, one of
the best
performances, the most sort of
playful.
And just watching him dance to a
Rolling Stones
song is worth the price of
admission alone.
JEFFREY BROWN: OK, some of the
films of 2016.
Ann Hornaday, Mike Sargent,
thank you both
very much.
ANN HORNADAY: Thank you.
MIKE SARGENT: Thank you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Tomorrow, the
best music
from 2016 with a pair of
critics, including
Ann Powers of NPR.
Beyonce's big year is certainly
featured,
but there's much more, too,
including a new
album by her sister.
ANN POWERS, NPR: Beyonce's
sister Solange
Knowles released a very
beautiful, introspective
album called "A Seat at the
Table" that again
reflected the political moment
in a very different
way.
If Beyonce was forceful and out
there, Solange
was quiet and thinking and
meditating and
dreaming.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And we want to
hear from
you.
Tell us what you loved in books,
movies, TV
and music in 2016.
Leave your picks in a comment on
our Art Beat
page.
You can find all of our best of
2016 arts
segments there as well.
You can find all of our best of
2016 arts
segments there as well.
As we come to the end of the
year, another
remembrance of our friend and
colleague Gwen
Ifill.
She was a pioneer in several
ways, and particularly
encouraging to young women
journalists of
color.
Have a listen.
YAMICHE ALCINDOR, The New York
Times: Dear,
Gwen.
HANNAH ALLAM, McClatchy
Newspapers: Dear,
Gwen.
TANZINA VEGA, CNN: Dear, Gwen.
KAT CHOW, NPR: Dear, Gwen.
YAMICHE ALCINDOR: Thank you for
telling that
you know my name.
HANNAH ALLAM: For the time that
I showed up
to your studio with straight
hair, because
everybody knows this isn't
polished.
YAMICHE ALCINDOR: I think of
just knowing
myself and knowing my name and
owning who
I am.
And it was so important that you
told me that.
HANNAH ALLAM: You gave me a look
that was
something like, and then you
said, "You know,
you don't have to do that here."
That meant the world to me.
KAT CHOW: When you're young, you
don't really
think about how important it is
to see people
who are a woman or a woman of
color in those
positions.
TANZINA VEGA: You were a beacon
for so many
of us, women of color
especially, who wanted
so badly to see themselves
reflected in the
media.
KAT CHOW: I only saw older white
guys on TV
behind the anchor desk.
PAMELA KIRKLAND: But there you
were, a beacon
of hope in a sea of white faces.
YAMICHE ALCINDOR: The fact that
you were covering
the White House, that meant
something.
That meant I could go and pursue
the career
and become a journalist.
NIA-MALIKA HENDERSON, CNN: All
of the young
journalists of color, women
particularly,
we all looked to you as an
example.
PAMELA KIRKLAND: I can remember
when I interviewed
for this job at "NewsHour."
And they asked me why I wanted
to work here.
And for me, the answer was
simple: It was
you.
HANNAH ALLAM: I remember, at the
Gridiron
Dinner a few years ago, you
pulled me aside
and said, "What are you covering
now?"
And I said "foreign policy."
And your eyes lit up and you
said: "Great.
I need more people of color to
come on the
show and talk about foreign
policy."
NIA-MALIKA HENDERSON: I just
knew I had made
it when I was on "Washington
Week With Gwen
Ifill," because you knew the
folks on "Gwen
Ifill," that, Gwen, you
respected them.
And to have your respect in that
moment on
those shows, it was everything.
KRISSAH THOMPSON, The Washington
Post: You,
a successful as you were, and as
prominent,
read my work and took the time
to encourage
me.
JASMINE WRIGHT: You saw me.
You saw me for who I was, and
you were proud
of me.
PAMELA KIRKLAND: I have admired
you and Judy
Woodruff for showing me that two
female co-anchors
could be a norm, instead of the
exception.
KAT CHOW: Now, more than ever,
we're at a
place where we need journalists
like us.
TANZINA VEGA: We owe you our
gratitude.
HANNAH ALLAM: So, as I stand
here with tears
in my eyes thinking of how much
we have lost
with your passing...
PAMELA KIRKLAND: There will
never be another
Gwen Ifill.
There will never be another you.
HANNAH ALLAM: We will miss your
journalism,
all of us.
YAMICHE ALCINDOR: Dear, Gwen, I
am going to
really, really, really, really
miss you, but
I'm also going to really,
really, really try
to make you proud.
KENYA DOWNS: By being a hand or
a model for
some other young woman who one
day may see
me, may see a woman who looks
like me and
like you, and know that she can,
too.
TANZINA VEGA: Thank you from the
bottom of
my heart.
JASMINE WRIGHT: Thank you, Gwen.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Yesterday, in
Gwen's honor,
we took a field trip to a
research lab at
the National Cancer Institute
for an update
on the state of cancer research
and to help
raise money for the Gwen Ifill
Fund for Journalism
Excellence.
MAN: I actually came to a lab at
the NIH.
And I did cancer research.
And it was while I was doing
that research
I lost my right eye to ocular
melanoma.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, you're a
cancer researcher
working at the NIH, and you lose
your right
eye to a cancer.
MAN: Exactly.
And so, you know, losing that
eye really affected
my depth perception and it made
it so that
I couldn't operate as a surgeon.
So I retrained in internal
medicine and medical
oncology.
And then I came back and started
kind of a
related, but somewhat new line
of research,
which is what I'm doing now.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Find that
online at
Facebook.com/"NewsHour."
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
Join us online and again here
tomorrow evening.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and good night.